---
layout: post
title: OUYA
date: 2012-07-12
comments: false
---

[OUYA][1] is a proposed gaming console being funded by a KickStarter campaign.
You can pledge $99 and your reward will be a console with one controller,
delivered in March 2013.

OUYA is to be powered by an ARM processor and  will run Android.  As of this morning,
almost $4 million has been pledged.  It's now KickStarter's fastest funded past
$1 million project (measured in hours) and is on track to be the largest funded
project ever (if it's not already).  It sounds pretty cool.

I won't be pledging.  I think it's going to fail.

It's really hard to make a game console.  Getting the hardware right on the
first try is not easy.  With a gaming console, changing the hardware after
launch is almost impossible without causing incompatibilities (game designers
love to do unexpected tricks because they know the hardware is stable).
OUYA's play mostly seems to be that they will offer fixed hardware, running
Android, and a stable SDK that's really cheap (it's included with every one).
GREAT!  But it's really hard to do this right.

Pricing the hardware appropriately to both make money and draw consumers is
very difficult.  Nothing is stopping Microsoft from dropping the Xbox
down to $99 just before OUYA's launch.  Microsoft has a history of losing money
on Xbox hardware sales, they seem to have no hesitation about doing it in order
to gain market share.  I don't think they'd hesitate to do it again if OUYA
is a real threat.  Which console is going to sell well at Wal-Mart?  The Xbox
at $99 with hundreds of games and Kinect, or this new thing?  It doesn't even
matter what the features of the new thing are, the Xbox is established and
kids won't be disappointed getting one.  Until OUYA is established, it's a
risky purchase for parents wanting to get their kid something, Xbox isn't.

OUYA is going to miss the holiday season for 2012.  I'm not a game industry
insider, but I bet over half of the game industry's revenues come in the 4th
quarter.  Missing that will hurt them.  Launching in March is bad timing.
Launching in the first week of November would be awesome timing.  They'll
delay millions of dollars in revenues by a full year, if OUYA could pull
in their schedule by 5 months, I think they'd have a chance.  If they don't,
Microsoft, Nintendo and Sony are going to eat their lunch.

Selling an SDK with the console price is stupid.  Sell the console.  Also sell
the SDK, but price it reasonably.  Apple gives away the SDK for iOS, but you
have to pony up $100 in order to sell in their store.  Fair.  If OUYA doesn't
do this same type of agreement, they're leaving $100+ per game developer on the
table.  $100 is reasonable, $1k wouldn't be unreasonable in order to get into
their store.  Giving the SDK away for free is a good idea, though, just make
sure to charge at some point in order to be a developer.

OUYA won't have amazing graphics.  That will hurt.  Xbox 360 was launched in
2005!  That's 7 years ago.  New games, coming out now, probably will have equal
graphics on Xbox as they would on OUYA.  It'll take developers a year or two
to really understand what can be done with OUYA.  I can only assume Microsoft
is working on the next gen Xbox.  OUYA, if it's really a threat, may push
Microsoft's schedule up a little bit.

OUYA is trying to disrupt the game industry.  They will only be successful if
one of the entrenched players doesn't try to do the same thing.  Nintendo,
Sony, and Microsoft all have great brands in gaming.  They are ripe for
disruption, and it's good that OUYA is bringing that fact to light.  But if
any one of those 3 entrenched companies realizes that they too could disrupt
the industry the same way OUYA is trying to, OUYA will fail.  I'm confident
that all 3 entrenched companies will see what's happening and try to perform
their own disruption, they can't afford not to, especially Microsoft, who's
going to need the revenue when [Windows 8 sucks][2].

It's awesome that OUYA is trying to do this.  I think it'd be tons of fun to
work there and be a part of making their console.  But, they're going to fail.

[1]: http://ouya.tv
[2]: /2012/07/Windows-8/

