---
layout: post
title: Debian Jessie and LVM Cache Exact Steps
date: 2015-03-26
comments: false
---

The whole concept of using a pile of big disks as a RAID in order to get lots of
storage and some redundancy has always intrigued me.  Back in 2006, when I last
built a home computer for myself, I bought a PCI-X battery backed RAID card and
loaded that system up with four 400 GB disks (not small for the time).  It was
very nice to know that my data wouldn't get lost due to an unexpected power loss
and that the RAID card (with 256 MB of RAM itself) would do some nice caching
for me to speed things up.

But now I'm a bit more thrifty ($300 for a RAID card is not in my budget!) and
I've gotten addicted to the disk speeds of SSDs.

Hence, the introduction of md-cache into Linux and the lvmcache capability into
the lvm2 tools is very interesting to me as now I can have a software RAID
(without some of the nice features the hardware RAID had but with a $0 price
tag) and use an SSD as a cache for the big slow disks!

There's a few decent resources on the web saying how to build up your disks into
a software RAID and then add dm-caching to it, but I wanted to put all my
personal experiences in one place for my own reference.

You'll need at least Linux 3.9 in order to enable dm-cache and you'll need a
relatively recent version of the lvm2 tools (I am using lvm2 v2.02.111 in Debian
Jessie whose dependencies include a bunch of systemd things which may make
backporting it to wheezy not super simple).  You can, in theory, make this work
on Debian Wheezy if you can backport (or simply package) a modern lvm2 tools
package and use a backported 3.9 or newer Linux kernel.

My test installation virtual machine has 3 big disks (20GB each) and 1 smaller
SSD (8GB).  Each of the big disks are `/dev/sda`, `/dev/sdb`, and `/dev/sdc`
while the SSD is `/dev/sdd`.

During install, I created 3 partitions on each of the big disks:

1. sdX1: 256 MB partition for software RAID
2. sdX2: 2 GB partition for swap
3. sdX3: remaining space for software RAID

Then, setting up the software RAID in the Debian installer, combine all of the
sdX1 partitions into a RAID1 and all of the sdX3 partitions into a RAID5.

Set up the sdX1 RAID1 as an ext4 file system and configure it to mount to
`/boot`.  Set up the sdX3 RAID5 to be used for LVM.  Set up each of the
sdX2 partitions (all 3, independently) as swap space (the swapping will take
advantage of all the drives in parallel so no need to burden them with software
RAID).

Set up the LVM space to split into two logical volumes, one for `/` and one for
`/home`.  Format each for ext4 and the proper mounted locations.

Continue with the Debian installer as normal.  After the installer finishes, I
found that grub was not installed correctly and I had to manually help it out a
bit with:

```
$ grub-install --recheck /dev/sda
$ grub-install --recheck /dev/sdb
$ grub-install --recheck /dev/sdc
```

Manually check that your `/etc/fstab` is correct, too.  Just in case.

Once you can boot into your system, then setup caching for both the `/` and
`/home` logical volumes.

Setup `/dev/sdd` as a physical volume:

```
$ sudo pvcreate /dev/sdd
```

My volume group (which contains the `/` and `/home` lvs) is called `vg0`, so to
add the `/dev/sdd` pv to `vg0` you need to extend `vg0`:

```
$ sudo vgextend vg0 /dev/sdd
```

Now create a pair of 3.6 GB cache logical volumes and a pair of 32 MB cache
metadata logical volumes (one cache and cache metadata for each lv you want to
cache):

```
$ sudo lvcreate -n lvrootcache -L3.6G vg0 /dev/sdd
$ sudo lvcreate -n lvhomecache -L3.6G vg0 /dev/sdd
$ sudo lvcreate -n lvrootcachemeta -L32M vg0 /dev/sdd
$ sudo lvcreate -n lvhomecachemeta -L32M vg0 /dev/sdd
```

Turn your cache lvs and cachemeta lvs into cache pools (one cache and one set of
metadata per cache pool, ideally you might want to put the metadata on a
different physical SSD from the cache itself):

```
$ sudo lvconvert --type cache-pool --cachemode writeback --poolmetadata \
	vg0/lvhomecachemeta vg0/lvhomecache
$ sudo lvconvert --type cache-pool --cachemode writeback --poolmetadata \
	vg0/lvrootcachemeta vg0/lvrootcache
```

Lastly, configure each of the actual logical volumes (root and home) to be
cached by each of the cache pools:

```
$ sudo lvconvert --type cache --cachepool vg0/lvrootcache vg0/lvroot
$ sudo lvconvert --type cache --cachepool vg0/lvhomecache vg0/lvhome
```

**Now, before you boot up with this caching configuration, make sure your kernel
actually supports dm-cache by ensuring it has CONFIG_DM_CACHE set to `y` or if a
module that the module gets loaded during early boot!** (Debian Jessie's present
3.16.0-4 kernel on amd64 does not, so booting is fun!)
