---
layout: post
title: 2017 Goals
date: 2017-01-02
comments: false
---

These are my engineering and computing related goals for 2017.  I feel like
writing them down will better enable me to understand what topics I want to
focus on in 2017 and allow me to evaluate if I achieved my goals at the end of
the year.

## Core Goals:

* Begin the process of becoming a Debian Developer by participating more in
Debian, fixing bugs and possibly adopting (via NMU and the mentors program, at
first) some orphaned packages that I care about.
* Start and contribute regularly to a website that tracks my accomplishments (even
small ones), both those which can be shared publicly and those which should stay
mostly private (ie: private things are work-related non-open source
accomplishments).
* Continue to run my NTP server in India and try to help improve the state of the
India NTP pool.
* Continue to avoid social media usage as it is distracting and addicting for me.
Although this will reduce the amount that I am able to interact with my Internet
Friends, when I'm not on social media I have found that I am much more focused
on my family during family times and on my work during work times.
* Create at least 1 new open hardware design and have it manufactured using a
structured design methodology which has similar benefits to most Time To Market
systems used at the companies I've worked at so that I am focused on what I am
building and why.
* Contribute to the KiCad parts library and footprint libraries.
* Continue to contribute to the Cross Linux from Scratch project.

## Reach Goals:

* Become a KiCad librarian who has commit access to the KiCad library and
footprint git repos.
* Create 2 or more open source hardware board designs and have them manufactured.
* Actually become a Debian Developer.
* Get a technician level AARL license.
